# Superbowl Pool Maker
## Create, manage, and participate in your own Super Bowl pools.
### Video Demo: 
### Description:
The goal of this project is to create a website that allows users to make and manage Superbowl pools. The website registers new users, then tracks the pools that the user makes. The user can then view the pools, assign names to the squares, and generate random numbers for the scores.
In order to make this program work, I used the Finance problem from week 9 for my guide to a lot of the formatting. I used python with flask for the backend, html with javascript, CSS and Bootstrap for the frontend, and SQLite for the database management.
#### Files:
app.py: The main python file is app.py. This is what runs with flask run.
database_helper.py and authorization_helper.py have functions that are called in app.py. database.py has functions to manage the database, and authorization_helper.py has functions to manage registering users.
pool.db is the database that is being used. It has 3 tables: users which stores the usernames, emails, and password hashes; pools which stores the names of pools, sizes, owner ids, and dates; and squares which stores the squares, x and y coordinate, pool id, and name associated with the square. They have sequential IDs to keep track of easier.
README.md: This current file. It includes a description of the final project.
There is template folder which has 7 html files.
There is a static file which stores styles.css and a couple images used for the website.
#### Libraries:
The program includes the following libraries: flask and flask_session, sqlite3, werkzeug.security, datetime, random, and logging.

#### Functions:
The index page of the website has two versions. If the user is logged in, it will show the users current pools. If no user is logged in, the website will prompt the user to either log in or register. There is also a navigation bar that changes whether the user is logged in or not.  The website uses a layout.html for the template that is shared across pages. This sets up the navbar, bootstrap, and the css file.The pool list also has a delete button to remove pool from the pool list.

The create pool route and function allow a user to name a new pool and decide whether it will be 5x5 or 10x10. The new pool is inserted into the pools table.  It also inserts the appropriate number of rows into the squares table, and uses ? for the placeholder for scores and "claim" as the placeholder for the blank squares.

When a pool is selected to view, it will show up with the view_pool.html. Empty squares can be claimed and assigned a name. The generate numbers function will randomly generate numbers from 1-10 for both teams. The generate numbers button should not be active until all squares are claimed, and should disappear once numbers are generated. The page showing the table is assigned an NFC Team and an AFC team.

The authorization_helper.py file has functions to register users, login, and a decorator for whether or not the session is logged in.

The database_helper.py file has functions that interact with the database "pools.db". This uses SQLite statements to update the database tables.  

Copilot helped generate a css file based on a style that I have seen before. My styles.css was mostly generated by copilot, and I adjust some smaller features like font size and colors. I was happy with the results and did not want to put more time into this.

Overall, the project did take longer than expected. When building the full site from scratch there are many small details to keep account of such as when a button should be available, exactly how to set up database schema, and trouble shooting when something is broken. If I wanted to update this in the future, I would want to use an API to automatically fill out the teams and scores live.

#### By Kevin Scroggins